Let's conclude this course with
talking about next steps, in particular
automated deployment with GitHub actions.
Let's walk through a high level overview
of how we integrate Git Flow with DABs.
Git Flow is a branching model that
involves the use of feature branches
and multiple primary branches.
This workflow streamlines the process
of developing, testing, and deploying
Databricks projects by leveraging
Git flow's structured branching model
with GitHub actions for automation.
The process begins on the very far
left of the screen here where the
developer has created a feature
branch from the dev branch.
This is where the individual features
or bug fixes are developed in isolation.
Developers can deploy code
directly to the dev Databricks
workspace using the Databricks CLI.
Once the development on a feature branch
is complete, a pull request is open.
After the code is peer reviewed,
it is merged into the dev branch.
After merging into Dev, the next step
involves triggering the GitHub actions
workflow for drafting a release.
This deploys the changes to the
QA environment using DABs, runs
tests, code coverage checks
and security scans, and finally
creates the version release branch.
It also creates a PR for the release
branch to be merged into Main.
After the release PR is closed, it
triggers another GitHub actions workflow
that deploys the bundle to prod.
Creates a release tag and eventually a
PR for Main branch is merged into Dev.
Finally, if a critical issue arises
in production, we handle it with a
hot fix branch, which is branched from
Main and then merged back into both
Main and Dev after the fix is applied.
This ensures that our production
environment remains stable while
allowing ongoing development to continue.
Let second a moment to
review Git on Databricks.
Git is a free and open-source software
framework designed to track changes in
source code during software development.
Some common Git tools and Git
based services are listed here
such as Azure DevOps, GitHub,
GitLab, Bitbucket, and AWS.
When integrating third party tools into
your workflows, make sure that it makes
sense for your organization's needs.